---
layout: default
title: "Lab 9: GWT RPC"
---

Your task is to implement a calculator web application similar to the one you worked on the [Lab 5](lab05.html).  The main difference is that in this version, computations will be performed on the server using GWT RPC.

# Getting started

Start by downloading [CS320\_Lab09.zip](CS320_Lab09.zip).  Import it into Eclipse (**File &rarr; Import... &rarr; General &rarr; Existing projects into workspace &rarr; Archive file**). You will see a project called **CS320\_Lab09** in the Package Explorer.

# Your Task

Your task is to use GWT RPC to carry out the calculator operations.

You will define support for performing operations to the **PerformOperationService** RPC service interface.

## Step 1 - Define method in the RPC service interface

Add the following method to the **PerformOperationService** interface:

{% highlight java %}
public OperationResult performOperation(Operation operation);
{% endhighlight %}

You will see an error: "PerformOperationServiceAsync is missing method performOperation".  Click on the error marker and apply the quick fix ("Generate method 'performOperation' in type 'PerformOperationServiceAsync'").

## Step 2 - Implement the RPC call on the server side

You will also need to implement the **performOperation** method in the **PerformOperationServiceImpl** class, which is the server-side implementation of **PerformOperationService**.

This method should instantiate a **PerformOperation** controller object and an empty **OperationResult** object, use the controller to perform the operation given as the parameter, and return the **OperationResult**.

## Step 3 - Use the RPC service

In **OperationAndResultView**, make calls to the RPC service in the **handleAdd**, **handleSubtract**, **handleMultiply**, and **handleDivide** methods.

These methods already contain code to update the **model** object (an instance of **Operation**) based on the values entered in the two text fields and the button pressed by the user.  You will need to pass this object as the parameter to the **performOperation** RPC service method.

The interesting aspect of calling RPC methods is that they are asynchronous: the call sends a request to the server, but does not wait for a response.  Instead, an instance of **AsyncCallback** is provided which has **onSuccess** and **onFailure** methods, one of which will be called at a later time when a response is received.

To call an RPC method, you need a proxy object, which is generated by a call to **GWT.create**.  The **RPC** class defines a proxy object for the **PerformOperationService**: the **performOperationService** field contains a reference to a proxy object implementing the asynchronous version of the RPC interface.

Your calls will look something like this:

{% highlight java %}
RPC.performOperationService.performOperation(model, new AsyncCallback<OperationResult>() {
    @Override
    public void onSuccess(OperationResult result) {
        // Your code goes here...
    }
    
    @Override
    public void onFailure(Throwable caught) {
        // Your code goes here...
    }
});
{% endhighlight %}

The **onSuccess** method should update the **operationResult** object with the value in the **result** parameter, which is the value returned by the RPC implementation method on the server.  Because the **ResultView** subscribes to state changes from the **operationResult**, this will automatically update the UI to display the result.

The **onFailure** method should display an error message.  You should add an **InlineLabel** to the UI to provide a place to display the error message.

# Things you should be aware of

All objects that are passed as arguments to RPC methods or returned from RPC methods must implement the **Serializable** interface.  They must only have primitive types or other serializable types as fields.  Also, field types may not be superclasses to which objects belonging to subclases will be assigned.  E.g., if **Car** is a subclass of **Vehicle**, you can't declare a **Vehicle** field and assign a reference to a **Car** to the field.

RPC service interfaces should have a  **RemoteServiceRelativePath** annotation that specifies the URL path through which the RPC service will be accessed.

The RPC service implementation class should extend **RemoteServiceServlet**.  It should be declared in **/war/WEB-INF/web.xml**, specifying an appropriate URL pattern (matching the one specified in the **RemoteServiceRelativePath** annotation.)

<!-- vim:set wrap: ­-->
<!-- vim:set linebreak: -->
<!-- vim:set nolist: -->
